# Rialize Progress!

## Overview
As a programmer, I want to know how many hours each day I worked on a particular project, but I don't want to have to punch a clock each time I start working (or stop the clock when I stop working). Moreover, I might forget to start the clock and stop the clock. Either way—I don't want to be bothered. Rialize helps me realize this goal by doing the monitoring for me! All I have to do is ensure Rialize is started (it will stop itself at the end of the day).

Rialize measures file-touches within a folder every 10 minutes across a day. Rialize assumes that 'file-touched' equals 'work done' within each quarter hour of time. When this 'touch data' is consolidated at the end of the day, Rialize will generate a report summarizing which hours had 'work done' on `files touched'.

Here is a sample Progress Report just generated by Rialize for the work I did on it yesterday.


    Daily Progress Report
    =====================
    
    Date: 07/29/2021
    Hours: 3.25 (Qtr-hours: 13)
    
    ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │Max @ <<RATIO>> per Touch																									│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-											▓▓										▓▓								│
    │-										▓▓	▓▓	▓▓	▓▓		▓▓			▓▓		▓▓	▓▓								│
    │-										▓▓	▓▓	▓▓	▓▓		▓▓			▓▓		▓▓	▓▓								│
    │min			00	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	12	01	02	03	04	05	06	07	08	09	10	11	AM/PM	│
    │				Mid												12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24-hour	│
    └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    
    Git Log
    =====================
    commit 3c9d4015d6557bd50efbfc973bf60c294159aabd
    Author: Larry Rix <ljr1981@msn.com>
    Date:   Thu Jul 29 18:53:29 2021 -0400
    
        updates for watch_list and new exe based on it
    
    commit 2550d729c75aa99ebdcf756c8296f3b82f4e29b7
    Author: Larry Rix <ljr1981@msn.com>
    Date:   Thu Jul 29 17:59:48 2021 -0400
    
        Removal of quite a few magic numbers
    
    commit c61e9dcea7ba9c25ac1bd852542b34b8c254ade6
    Author: Larry Rix <ljr1981@msn.com>
    Date:   Thu Jul 29 15:54:36 2021 -0400
    
        v0.0.0.7 corrections for UTC v Local times, plus better calc of sleep-cycles
        and other needed changes.

## Quick Reference
Install Rialize with the 'rialize_setup.exe' (see this repo). This is a Windows-based application only.

Once installed, be sure to add Rialize to your %PATH%. You may now open your favorite command line DOS prompt, navigate to the folder you would like to monitor, create a .\db\ folder in that directory, and then launch Rialize with the following command line call:

   rialize --rtm --text .\

This will initialize Rialize, whereupon it will generate its first touch-file in the \db\ folder and then start waiting for each 10 minute segment. After each 10 minute pause, it will generate another touch-file. This will continue until midnight of the day you start Rialize.

    Let's say File-A is touched at 10:37 AM and again at 2:15 PM and then again at 2:17 PM — Rialize 
    will tell me that I've done 30 minutes of work on that "project" that day (the 2:15 and 2:17 only 
    count as a single 15 minutes of work).
    
    So even if I were staring at code for the four hours between those touches, we don't count that 
    as work because no updates were saved to disk during that time span.

The next day, you can run the following command line call and produce a Progress Report:

    rialize --report --text .\

This will produce a Progress_report_[stamp].txt file like the example above.

## Future Work
Rialize is going places. Here is the roadmap ahead:
- The next step is to test the multi-project facilities of Rialize—that is—can Rialize perform as-expected using the '--file' option rather than the '--text' (single project) option?
- Assess any feedback for improvements to the Daily Progress Report. This may entail a Linux-based product as well as facilities beyond a reliance on GitHub repositories.
- Provide first linkage to Foggler BDD specifications, whereby Rialize Progress Reports can speak to the question: "How much more work is there to be done?" (in terms of BDD spec completion).

That last item is very non-trivial. It depends on Foggler being more mature and a serious think-about regarding how one measure future work rather than just daily work done as meaure by file touch recording.

## Version Info
- v0.0.0.10 — The report generator now knows how to make a basic touch-point chart showing a timescale with the touch-counts/hour from Midnight-to-Midnight same-day.
- v0.0.0.8 — Lots of changes including bug fix where Rialize was not reporting touched files in a reasonable way. It now reports only files changed in last 10 minutes with each cycle through looking for changes.
- v0.0.0.3 — Missing correct version and corrects a bug where Rialize was reporting touches on its own files as work against the overall project folder, which is (of course) not true.
- v0.0.0.2 — Updated to create its own \db\ project subfolder as-needed. Previously, it was crashing and the user needed to create the subfolder.
- v0.0.0.1 — First initial commit of the Rialize installer.
